Design notes for ``RangeStream``
================================

Key Considerations
------------------

When it comes to handling ranges, the key design choice is regarding the
central issue of how overlapping ranges are handled.

1. Whether to be strict about keeping ranges disjoint
2. Whether to permit reallocation of a given range

One possibility for ``RangeStream`` would be not to invoke any further
range requests which overlap an existing ``RangeResponse`` without first
exhausting all the bytes in its response iterator. However, since the
requests involved are streaming GET requests, there is no data
downloaded for a given iterator, and it makes more sense to simply
re-define (re-request and overwrite) or truncate it (i.e. ensure the
iterator stops early).

-  If instead we chose to “trim” already-requested ranges by reading
   them in, you would end up in the absurd situation of reading through
   [potentially large] regions of data which had been downloaded
   expressly to discard. Indeed, if you requested the complete range of
   a file in such a data structure, it would not be possible to take
   advantage of the ‘streaming’ behaviour at all, as any further ranges
   specified will already be spanned by the first “complete file range”,
   and so the entire file would be loaded into memory when reading
   ranges near the end of the file.

The one benefit of such a “anti-re-requesting” data structure would be
that the ``RangeDict`` keys could be expected to reliably maintain their
initialised values (as a singleton ``RangeSet`` containing only the
provided ``Range``).

However, with careful handling (and a good test suite) this reliability
can be ensured with a more efficient and “re-requesting friendly”
approach.

Potentially degenerate ``RangeStream``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If overlaps are permitted to be handled, then we have 3 options (all of
which are available through the ``pruning_level`` parameter initialised
on ``RangeStream``).

-  Pruning level 0: “replant”

   -  If a new range overlaps an existing range:

      -  **(H)** at the existing head, then it is re-requested with this
         head removed (or “replanted”)
      -  **(T)** at the existing tail, then it is marked so that its
         iterator will stop early (with a “tail mark”), and is reported
         as if it was truncated (even though its ``RangeResponse`` will
         still store the originally requested range ‘un-truncated’)
      -  **(HTT)** completely, or ‘head-to-tail’, then the existing
         range is truncated to just the ‘upstream’ part

   -  If any of the above scenarios would result in an empty range, then
      it is “burned” instead

-  Pruning level 1: “burn”

   -  If a new range overlaps an existing range, then it is simply
      “burned” (i.e. deleted from the ``RangeDict``)

-  Pruning level 2: “strict”

   -  If a new range overlaps an existing range, then a ``ValueError``
      is raised

In these scenarios, the overlaps are calculated against the “external”
ranges, which are modified upon reading. If a given range has been
requested, but then was read, then those positions which were read past
will no longer be subject to overlap checks (they are no longer ‘seen’
by the overlap handler).

For a file format whose precise boundaries can be determined (such as
zip files), with a careful approach each position can be efficiently
accessed once only using this library.

Every position has at most one associated “primary range”
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Each position in a range that was requested will either be “read past”
(indicated by a positive offset), “still to read” (i.e. not read past),
or “not to be read” (indicated by the “tail mark” which effectively
truncates a range, and is set to avoid overlaps when registering a new
range).

-  The offset that has been read into a given range is given by
   ``RangeResponse.tell()`` (a method the
   ```io.BytesIO`` <https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/io.html#io.BytesIO>`__
   stream
   `inherits <https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/io.html#io.IOBase.tell>`__
   from ``io.IOBase``)
-  A second offset is stored for each range from its ‘tail’, indicating
   that the range can be considered “trimmed shorter” (i.e. any consumer
   should stop early).

   -  When an overlap would occur, this tail offset allows the
      overlapped positions to be re-assigned to be associated with the
      newer range.

-  Whether a range still has bytes left to be read is reported by the
   ``is_consumed()`` method on the ``RangeResponse`` (which is stored in
   the values of the ``RangeDict`` in a ``RangeStream`` at the ``Range``
   key for the positions in question).

File-like streams
-----------------

The ``RangeStream`` gives a file-like object (commonly referred to in
the Python standard library as ``fp``), which is complicated by the fact
that this means it must have a singular position to return from
``tell()``, despite being composed of multiple ranges able to be
iterated independently.

By design this is disallowed, only a single range should be used at a
time, so ``tell()``, ``read()``, and ``seek()`` will behave as expected
for a file on disk.

The ``_active_range`` attribute stores the most recently registered
range, and the ``active_range_response`` stores the property at that
range. Note that the ``_active_range`` is an *internal* range (meaning
it comes from the ``_ranges: RangeDict`` and will not change when read,
though it will reflect changes due to the tail mark which are
fundamental to the range itself). The *external* range changes when
bytes are read from the response it points to in the external
``ranges: RangeDict``.

--------------

Range comparison
----------------

There are 4 distinct ways of comparing ranges in a ``RangeStream``
(checking for membership):

``RangeStream._ranges``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``RangeStream._ranges`` is a ``RangeDict`` of all the ``Range``\ s.

-  The keys of this ``RangeDict`` should be singleton ``RangeSet``\ s
   containing only the initialised ``Range``, though the start and end
   positions may change after overlap handling.
-  The values are ``RangeRequest`` objects storing the request sent and
   response received along with the initialised range (which never
   changes).
-  The ranges in the keys do not change when the ``RangeResponse`` is
   read

Comparing to the ``_ranges`` attribute therefore compares against the
set of ranges requested so far from the file (note: not to be confused
with the union of these ranges, which is empty for any ranges which are
not directly consecutive).

This is known as the “internal” ``RangeDict``, and its keys do not
reflect modifications made when the range is ‘read’. They only reflect
modifications made to avoid overlaps.

``RangeStream.ranges``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is the “external” property (with read-only keys) which gates access
to ``_ranges``, and reflects the extent to which ranges have been
consumed (i.e. when the ``RangeResponse`` of an entry is read through,
the key is updated so the start position matches the ``tell`` position
from the response iterator).

``RangeStream.spanning_range``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``RangeStream.spanning_range`` is a property defined once the first
range request has been completed, and is either the initialised range
(which may be the empty range) or if further ranges have been requested,
the range which spans the minimum/maximum terminus of the “first and
last” ranges in the ``RangeStream.ranges`` keys (i.e. ranges with lowest
start/highest end positions).

Note that this property is calculated from the external ranges, and
therefore is liable to change when the response iterators are read (and
indeed is certain to change if the response is the “first” range in the
``RangeStream``).

Comparing to the ``spanning_range`` property therefore compares against
a set which is not necessarily fully covered by the ranges requested in
the ``RangeStream.ranges: RangeDict``, but merely is within the extremes
of those ranges. (There may be gaps).

``RangeStream.total_range``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``RangeStream.total_range`` is a property defined once the first range
request has been completed, and is simply the range from the start of
the file (position 0) to the end of the file,
i.e. ``[0, RangeStream.total_bytes)``.

Comparing to the ``total_range`` property therefore compares against a
set which is not necessarily fully covered (or even at all: the
``RangeStream`` may be completely empty!) by the ranges requested in the
``RangeStream``\ ’s ``ranges`` (or ``_ranges``) RangeDict.
